# rv23-experiments

Experiments from the paper "Monitoring Hyperproperties With Prefix Transducers" accepted at RV'23

## Data from the paper

The CSV files that were generated by our experiments are in the folder `csv_from_paper`.
In the rest of this README, we describe how to generate the CSV files.

## Docker

You can build the docker image with the artifact using `docker build`

```
# run from the top-level directory
docker build . -t rv23-experiments
```

If you are on a new enough Linux system, you may use the BuildKit to get
faster builds:

```
DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1 docker build . -t rv23-experiments
```

To run the built image, use:

```
docker run -ti -v "$(pwd)/results":/opt/rv23-experiments/results rv23-experiments
```

This command starts a docker container with experiments ready to run and gives
you a shell in this container. It also binds a folder `results/` in the
current directory to the same directory in the container,
so you can see access the results of the experiments in the host system.
Feel free to change `$(pwd)/results` to a directory of your choice.

## Building without Docker

### Requirements

These are requirements for Ubuntu, on other systems, the packages will be named similarly:

```
sudo apt-get install python3 g++ gcc make time cmake
```

#### Requirements for plotting the results

For plotting the results, we use Python packages `matplotlib`, `seaborn`, and `pandas`.
On Ubuntu, these can be installed with

```
sudo apt-get install python3-matplotlib python3-seaborn python3-pandas
```

Or you can install them via pip:

```
pip install matplotlib seaborn pandas
```


### Configuration & Build

```shell
# clone the repo
git checkout https://github.com/ista-vamos/rv23-experiments
cd rv23-experiments

# initialize and build vamos-buffers
git submodule update --init -- vamos-buffers
cd vamos-buffers
cmake . -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
make -j4
cd -

# configure and build the project
cmake . -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
make -j4
```

## Running

In the top level directory is the script `run.sh` that takes as an argument either
`rand` to run experiments on random traces, or `1t` to run experiments on
multiple instances of the same trace. So run the experiments as follows:

```
./run.sh rand
./run.sh 1t
```

By default, the script repeats the experiments 10 times (can be modified by changing
the `REP` variable in the script). If you run the script multiple times, it will
prompt the user if the old results should be overwritten or not.

The result of the experiments will be printed to the standard output and also
saved into files `results_rand.csv` and `results_1t.csv` in the directory `results`.

### Customizing

As stated above, the number of repetitions of the experiments can be set by the
`REP` variable in the script `run.sh`. There is also the variable `NPROC`
that controls how many processes should be run in parallel.
By default, it is empty which means that the script should detect the number of cores
and use a suitable number of processes. You can set this variable to a number
of processes that you want to use.

## Plotting the results

There is a script `plot.sh` that takes the generated CSV files and generates plots
to `plot-rand.pdf` and `plot-1t.pdf` into the `results` directory. Simply run it as

```
./plot.sh
```

You can use it also to re-generate the plots from the paper on the data in `csv_from_paper`:

```
./plot.sh paper
```

